= RELEASE HISTORY

== 0.3.2 / 2011-11-05

Improve backtrace output in a number of reporters. Now, by default, full
backtraces are provided. Use the `--trace DEPTH` option to limit the
number of backtrace lines to report.

Changes:

* Improve backtrace output among the most polished reporters.


== 0.3.1 / 2011-10-18

This release fixes an error raised when no report format is explicitly specified.
Where as it is supposed to default to the `dot` reporter. It also adds initial
support for error/failure `class` field.

Changes:

* Fix default reporter issue. (Brad Murray) #1
* Add support for class field to Turn reporter.


== 0.3.0 / 2011-10-09

This release supports revision 3 of the TAP-Y/J specification, which adds `final`
to the document types. The `final` document is the last document of a test suite.
It takes the place of `tally`, which is now simply an optional running subtotal
document. 

This release also makes some interface improvements to the `Reporters::Abstract`
base class and ports over all applicable reporters from the Turn project.

Changes:

* Use `final` instead of `tally` for last entry.
* Port Turn report formats.


== 0.2.3 / 2011-10-08

Exit code are important for a test output format. This release addressed that
issue.

Changes:

* Fixed exit code.


== 0.2.2 / 2011-10-07

Fixed incorrect tally entry in breakdown reporter.

Changes:

* Fixed incorrect tally entry in breakdown reporter.
* Add integration specs for reporters.


== 0.2.1 / 2011-10-06

A quick fix for a malformed require call in the HTML reporter,
and a fix for indention in the legacy TAP adapter.

Changes:

* Fix require in html reporter.
* Fix indention of YAML in legacy TAP adapter.


== 0.2.0 / 2011-10-06

This release revises the specification a bit, primarily
changing the names of header and footer sections to more
semantically useful terms, suite and tally, respectively.
Also, a `rev` field has been added to the suite entries
to allow consuming apps to gracefully handle any future
changes.

Changes:

* Rename header and footer to suite and tally.
* Add rev field to suite entry.


== 0.1.0 / 2011-05-21

This is the first public release of TapOut, a TAP and TAP-Y/J output
formatter.

Changes:

* Happy Release Day!

